---
layout: post
title: Solving For The Privileged Is Okay!
permalink: /solving/
draft: true
---

> I've encountered numerous arguments lately, where individuals tend to fixate on the fact that startups almost exclusively address the concerns of high-net-worth individuals. This is my argument "pro" those folks.

On his pitch in the finale episode of Shark Tank(India) Season 1, Peyush Bansal described his mission statement: to bring affordable and stylish eyewear to everyone in India.[^lenskart] Within that pitch, was also an admission of guilt: "Mujhe kahi kahi ye lag rha tha ki mai aise logo ki zindagi behtar bana raha hu, jo pehle hi kaafi behtar hai" i.e. "I felt that I was improving the lives of those who were already quite well of", referring to his previous employment. (Thanks to Himanshu for bringing this into notice [^himanshu]) 

This sentiment is echoed by many. And there is merit to the argument; the world has far more serious problems like poverty, poor healthcare, lack of sanitation, infant mortality, mass ideological polarization, etc. However, the builders and the makers seems to be solving for all the privileged markets. This is especially true in India, where a lot of the country still lags behind on the basics. A big chunk of the nation is still poverty stricken and many still living paycheck to paycheck. Its understandeable why one would want more people solving for the more pressing problems of society. So why this gap?

A big reason that this is our reality, is that we live in a capitalistic society. Due to socio-economic problems prevailing in present-day society, it may feel unfortunate, but I am a capitalist myself. I believe capitalism is the most successful system so far for a good reason - it thrives on competition and innovation - both of which drive improvements in society. This, in turn, creates an efficient market.

It is important to note that this is not to say other economic systems do not support innovation. The funny thing about humans is, we don't settle. We will create new systems time and again; these systems will be available long enough to make humans comfortable with them; once comfortable, humans will find problems in them and complain; and finally, someone will come along and solve these problems.

But **the beauty of capitalism is that it aligns hand in glove with this human need to solve things and have things solved**; it allocates outsized rewards to those who solve inefficiencies in the market, often overcoming a hard problem affecting a lot of people. This encourages innovation at a phenomenal speed - everyone is looking to innovate to create wealth for themselves.

In such a system, an inevitable ordering arises, based on wealth. In this spectrum of wealth(where multiple families are placed), every solution priced at an amount X, will be affordable only to people beyond a certain income level in the spectrum.[^spectrum] If you go around banding up this spectrum according to expenditure behaviours, a few 10s of modes would emerge. As the system would have it, majority of money is earned and spent in the upper echleon of bands. The consequence of this is that for entrepreneurs to create wealth for themselves, they need to target the larger volumes of money; they will need to be biased in problem solving or their company dies and no one benefits.

While this may feel like a doomerism take, there is a gleaming upside here. As companies are solving problems for the well off, they are creating jobs for the not so well off. **By creating employment, entrepreneurship becomes a formidable force of wealth transfer from the rich to the poor, and there-in lies its extraordinary superpower.** Take Uber for instance; anyone with a driver's license can now work when they want and however long they want, to put food on the table. This opportunity was just not available in the pre-Uber era; sure there were cab licenses, but nothing for those who can drive and want to work part time to support their families in times of need. Urban Company is another; so many service workers in the unorganized sector can now earn way more than they would through independent consulting - UC provides them with both wages as well as skill training. In fact, they even have a program to grow their role to become trainers themselves, with sufficient experience. YouTube, Instagram, Tiktok and Twitch enabled anyone to become a creator. It created a new market and with that, enabled atleast some creators to make a living for themselves. 

How does one go about succeeding in this system? Paul Graham has his own formula for doing great work. He supports the notion that one must work at the bleeding edge of a field, notice how the edge has gaps and try to solve for those gaps.[^pg_greatwork]




- Capitalism is the most successful system so far
- Define Level = income level (because certain income ranges open up certain priced solutions). 

- Entrepreneurship is biased in its problem solving
- Volume of money at each level 
- Government as a problem solver
- Enterpreneurship for jobs
- Wage gap, inflation, etc.
- Non profit as a problem solver

- Humanity seems to be wading through a state of constant improvement, with a looming sense of impending doom.



- How AI will help save society
- brink of fusion, cheap abundant energy, and already well working AI


[^lenskart]: [Peyush Bansal's Lenskart's Journey - Shark Tank India](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LrA4UwYTJt8).
[^himanshu]: [Himanshu's Linkedin post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/himanshuk32_india-activity-7134525952381890561-tO6I) on how we are making privileged lives cushier.
[^spectrum]: This is an oversimplification for conceptual clarity. In reality, affordability of a solution is more nuanced; considering personal wealth, value proposition to the user, ease of access and more. But there is some truth to it, because personal wealth is the biggest factor.
[^banding]: Could be more granular, but any practical segregation should probably give < 15 bands. 
[^pg_greatwork]: [How to do great work](https://paulgraham.com/greatwork.html) on Paul Graham's personal website.