---
layout: post
title: Why I Write
permalink: /writing/
---

> *Title inspired by George Orwell's "Why I Write".*

Any pursuit for the sake of itself prompts intense scrutiny as a rite of passage, and this one shall be no exception. It is for a good reason: it helps clarify indirectly, whether the time spent on the endeavour is worth it. Let's take our turn to answer the dreaded existential question: what is this blog's purpose?

My purpose with this blog is twofold: there's the satisfaction of producing something publishable for a broad readership; and secondly, there are some things that need to be said that only my most fervent fans deserve to read.

With microblogging being the norm today, it feels like an uphill battle to be writing. But that's the beauty of pursuing hard things - while they imbue a gnawing pain in your temple that your median life is devoid of, they present an opportunity to differentiate yourself. And as it eats away at your brain, the usual train of thoughts arrive questioning whether the time spent on it is worth. *That* is the great filter, where 99% are sifted out.

But there is something magical about writing we discount. 

Although writing itself can be rewarding, the magic of writing is not in the written word. Its what the written word makes possible. Writing frees up the minds' cognitive reserves to engage in a more valuable pursuit, namely, critical thinking. This coupled with the additional working memory on your paper (or computer for that matter) makes writing an effective tool for reflection.

Paul Graham talks about the something similar in his post about putting ideas into words.[^1] A good writer doesn't just write, but discovers a range of ideas when he's writing. The beauty of the process is that reading what you've written many times over(obsessively proofreading when you write is pretty common) is what creates an exacting effect - half baked ideas become concrete.

And thus, this blog.

[^1]:<http://paulgraham.com/words.html>